This is for the absolute most serious
person. This is for the person who is,
you know, maybe maybe looking at walking
onto an NFL team. And like if you look
at the the Westside Barbell programming,
many of the NFL hopefuls that Westside
Barbell ends up connecting with and
current NFL players because Westside
Barbell works with the strength and
conditioning coaches for the vast
majority of NFL teams, they recommend at
least a couple of force bars per team.
>> [music]
>> Hi, my name is John Jaquish.
I want to talk today about the force bar
and who should buy the force bar. Now,
you'll see this through a lot of my
different videos. I like helping people
save money. So, I don't want you to buy
something that's overkill or like you
could succeed with the non-digital
version. So, we have the Elite X3,
that's the regular one that doesn't
record your data, and this one, this is
the force bar. So, you'll notice has a
little light on it that turns on, a
little power button at the top, and the
logo is colored. And of course the the
ends are a little bit longer. Now,
why did we create the force bar, what is
it for, and who should get it? The
regular one is $550.
The force bar is $950
because it does a lot more and requires
a
Also, there's a service subscription to
it, which is $15 a month. I'm going to
tell most people this is for
the absolute most serious person. This
is for the person who is, you know,
maybe maybe looking at walking onto an
NFL team. And like if you look at the
the Westside Barbell programming, many
of the NFL hopefuls that Westside
Barbell ends up connecting with and
current NFL players because Westside
Barbell works with the strength and
conditioning coaches for the vast
majority of NFL teams, they recommend at
least a couple of four spars per team.
So, maybe not every time, but they use
this to benchmark their workouts. So,
what it gives you is an aggregate of
total force. How much work did the
target muscle do in total in the set?
That means it's going to count how much
force you create and obviously as you
extend, you create more force, but if
you if you're jerky about it, if you do
reps like this, well, that's not going
to count for very much because and
as we know, mechanical tension is what
causes growth. It has to be relevant
mechanical tension, but if you're doing
slow and controlled repetitions like
this,
that total work number is going to be
much higher. So, that's one thing to
consider. As you progress,
really the only gauge
for getting better getting getting
stronger is getting bigger.
Like you need to absolutely know that.
It's not counting sets.
That doesn't do anything.
You can you like like Dorian Yates says,
if you if your normal bench is 300 for
10 reps,
you can do sets with 150 all day long.
Not going to do anything. So,
this keeps it relevant.
And it makes it so you can
even even if you're half a rep away from
your best performance ever. So, you see
the number, you're only let's say 100 or
200 lbs away. Well, one half repetition
can get you there, but if you don't know
that, you might not do it. And then you
might not get that super powerful
stimulus.
So, when you're really serious,
this is what you want to go for.
Otherwise, you can just count full
repetitions and partial repetitions, and
we have a an app that's free where you
can track that with your regular X3
work. Uh again, you know, this is for
the absolute most serious athlete. One
other thing that I I [snorts] want to
make sure people know,
the way it learns what an exercise is
as far as range of motion and in
relevant tension, is you do a
calibration set.
So, you put the lightest weight band on,
let's say it's a chest press, and you do
however many, you know, you don't you
don't actually do a number of
repetitions. It'll tell you how many
repetitions to do, but what you want to
do is keep them in a normal pattern of
how you would normally exercise. This is
a mistake people make that I'm that I'm
going to explain to you.
So, they they're very controlled and
principled.
Then, when they go to do their
their exercise after the calibration,
now they're trying to ego lift,
and you don't want to do that.
Well, you don't want to do that ever,
but what ends up happening is they,
instead of just going to the point where
the pectorals are fully contracted,
they'll extend
their shoulder blades, which puts the
shoulder in a very awkward position, and
it's not how you bench press, so don't
do that. Just keep your shoulders at
your sides. Don't rotate them forward,
and don't go for the ego number. Just
stay at that one position,
because
we care about joint health, so that's
one issue. The other issue is the
calibration looks at a spectrum of force
and decides that from this point to this
point is a repetition. Anything outside
of that is probably just getting in the
position or an anomaly, and we're going
to ignore it. Now, if instantly when you
start, instead of using the range of
motion that you set in the calibration,
you go for a higher weight,
well, now this happens.
So, it's looking at a range
that you're not really going to perform
in, and it might not capture all of your
repetitions. So, that's a that's a very
specific thing that some force bar users
I see them doing it and want to do it
correctly and repeatably every time
because only when you repeat it have you
removed all the variables and you're
actually tracking strength to the pound,
to the partial repetition, and I mean,
that's basically the maximum output of
the muscle on any given day. You do one
set, you have stimulated to an
incredibly powerful level, and you're
going to grow.
Ask me any questions in the comments.
See you on the next one. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights,
we've got the answer for you.